# Slug Field 
- In Django, a slug field is a field used to store a short label or identifier for a record, typically used in URLs and as a more human-readable version of an object's title or name.
- Slug fields are often used in web applications to create clean, SEO-friendly URLs that contain descriptive text instead of random or numeric identifiers.

## Characterstics
- Human-Readable URLs: Slug fields are used to generate human-readable and SEO-friendly URLs. For example, instead of having a URL like example.com/products/1, you might have example.com/products/my-product-name.
- Clean and Readable: Slugs are typically composed of lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens (or underscores) to make them easy to read and type. They remove spaces and special characters, which can be problematic in URLs.
- Auto-Generation: Django provides tools to automatically generate slug values based on a specified field in your model. Commonly, you would use the prepopulate_from option to specify the field whose value should be used to create the slug.
- Unique Constraints: Slugs are often subject to unique constraints, ensuring that each record has a unique slug. This helps avoid conflicts and ensures that URLs point to the correct resource.
- Validation: Django provides validation to ensure that the generated slugs meet certain criteria, such as being unique and URL-safe.
- Customization: While Django provides default slug generation, you can also customize how slugs are generated by defining a slugify function or using third-party libraries for more advanced slug creation.

```python
  from django.db import models
from django.utils.text import slugify

class Product(models.Model):
    name = models.CharField(max_length=100)
    slug = models.SlugField(unique=True, allow_unicode=True, blank=True)

    def save(self, *args, **kwargs):
        if not self.slug:
            self.slug = slugify(self.name)
        super().save(*args, **kwargs)

    def __str__(self):
        return self.name

```
- In this example, the slug field is automatically generated based on the name field, ensuring that each product has a unique and URL-safe slug.
- The save method overrides the default behavior to generate the slug when saving a new object.
